<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC  "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" [
  <!ENTITY kapp "<application>KPatience</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kapp;" -- this only *seems* redundant -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % ents PUBLIC "-//KDE//ENTITIES Application-Variable Entities V1.0//EN">
  %ents;
]>

<book lang="en">
<bookinfo>
<title>The KPatience Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Paul Olav</firstname>
<surname>Tvete</surname>
</author>
<othercredit>
<firstname>Mike</firstname><surname>McBride</surname>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
<affiliation><address><email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></address></affiliation>
</othercredit>
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Paul Olav Tvete</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>25/11/2000</date>
<releaseinfo>0.07.04</releaseinfo>
<abstract>

<para>This documentation was last updated for &kapp; version 0.7.04. Please make
any comments and additions to the author.</para>

</abstract>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>patience</keyword>
<keyword>solitaire</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="Introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&kapp; is a collection of 9 card games.  All the games are single player
games.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kpat">
<title>How to obtain &kapp;</title>

<para>&kapp; is part of the KDE project
<ulink url="http://www.kde.org">http://www.kde.org</ulink>.
&kapp; can be found in the kdeutils package on
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, the
main ftp site of the KDE project. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and installation</title>

<para>In order to compile and install &kapp; on your system, type the following
in the base directory of source distribution:</para>

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>cd kdegames</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>./configure</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>cd kpat</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>

<para>Since &kapp; uses <application>autoconf</application> and
<application>automake</application> you should have not trouble compiling
it.</para>

<para>Should you run into problems please report them to the KDE mailing
lists.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="using-kpat">
<title>Using &kapp;</title>

<para>Like all computer based solitare games, the computer has already dealt you
a game.</para>

<para>Click on a card and hold the mouse button down to drag a card to a new
location.  With some games, you can double click on a card to make a specific
play.</para>

<para>For more specific information, see the section on <link
linkend="rules-of-the-game">Rules of the Games"</link>.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="rules-of-the-game">
<title>Rules of the games</title>

<para>&kapp; contains 9 card games.  Simply click on the name of the game to
view the rules of the game"</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><link linkend="klondike">Klondike</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="microsolitaire">MicroSolitare</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="calculation">Calculation</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="napoleon-s-tomb">Napoleon's Tomb</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="the-idiot">The Idiot</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="grandfather">Grandfather</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="ten">Ten</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="mod3">Mod3</link></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="freecell">Freecell</link></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<sect1 id="klondike">
<title>Klondike</title>

<para>You know this one. Alternate red and black on the foundations.  Follow
suit on the top. When you click on the deck, three more cards are dealt.  Simple
rules means that excess cards are put on top of the deck, hard rules that they
are left on bottom. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="microsolitaire">
<title>MicroSolitaire</title>

<para>This version of Klondike was popularized by a large software company.
Alternate red and black on the foundations. Follow suit on the top.  When you
click on the deck, one card is dealt. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="calculation">
<title>Calculation</title>

<para>This one takes some time to get used to. The objective is to move all
cards to the top four piles. </para>

<para>Unlike most other forms of patience, you do not need to follow
suit.</para>

<para>On the leftmost pile, put the cards in sequence
A-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-J-Q-K. On the second pile the sequence is
2-4-6-8-10-Q-A-3-5-7-9-J-K, on the third 3-6-9-Q-2-5-8-J-A-4-7-10-K, and on the
rightmost 4-8-Q-3-7-J-2-6-10-A-5-9-K.</para>

<para>You may use the bottom piles any way you want, but remember that it is possible
to transfer sequences as well as single cards to the top piles.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="napoleon-s-tomb">
<title>Napoleon's Tomb</title>

<para>The four diagonal piles takes cards of any suit, of increasing value
starting with 7 and ending up with K.  The middle pile takes cards of any suit,
starting with 6, decreasing down to A, and string over again with 6. The
remaining four positions are for temporary storage, each may hold one
card. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-idiot">
<title>The Idiot</title>

<para>If more than one card of the same suit is exposed, you can remove the
lower-valued ones.  You can move cards to empty positions. The objective is to
end up with only aces. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="grandfather">
<title>Grandfather</title>

<para>The objective is to move all cards to the top four piles, in ascending
order and following suit in each pile. On the foundation, you may move a card to
the next card of the same suit; you may move the five of spades on top of the
six of spades, even if there are other cards on top of the five of spades.  When
no further moves are possible, click "<guibutton>Redeal</guibutton>".  The game
is over after two redeals. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="ten">
<title>Ten</title>

<para>If three cards on the outer edge of one pile sums to 10, 20 or 30, you can
remove them. </para>

<para>K, Q and J count as 10. To remove cards, just click on the pile.</para>

<para>The objective is to remove all cards. </para>

<para>If this is too much mental strain, just select "<guibutton>Full
Auto</guibutton>" and watch the machine do your relaxation for you. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="mod3">
<title>Mod3</title>

<para>The objective is to move all cards to the top three rows.</para>

<para>The first row takes cards starting with 2, the second starts with 3, the
third starts with 4. The other cards must be of the same suit, increasing by
3.</para>

<para>In other words, the first three rows takes the sequences 2-5-8-J, 3-6-9-Q,
4-7-10-K, respectively. You can only place a 8 on the top of a 5 on the first
row if the 5 is on the top of a 2. The 2 can be placed on an empty place of the
first row. At each redeal, eight more cards goes to the fourth row.  Aces don't
play. </para> 

</sect1>

<sect1 id="freecell">
<title>Freecell</title>

<para>The objective is to move all cards to the store positions (the four
top-right places), starting with aces, in ascending order, following
suits. </para>

<para>The free cells (the four top-left places) can hold any -- and just one --
card.  Alternate red and black (in ascending order) to put cards on the other
eight stacks.</para>

<para>If one of the stacks is empty, any card can be placed there. If there is
enough free cells you can move multiple cards if they are in the correct
sequence and with alternate colors. The number of free cells required is the
same as if you would make an equivalent sequence of moves with single
cards. </para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="menus">
<title>Menu Commands</title>
<para>All the commands available to &kapp; can be found within the menu
commands</para>

<sect1 id="file-menu"><title>File Menu</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Selecting this item will end your current game, and exit the &kapp;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="game-menu"><title>Game Menu</title>
<para>The edit menus are used to change options or to switch to a different
 game.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Reverses the last move.  This can be used if you notice you made a mistake
on the last move.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>R</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Restart Game</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Aborts the current game, and deals another hand.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Choose New Game</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Selecting this option provides you with a submenu listing the 9 available
games.  Simply select the game you want, and &kapp; will stop the current game,
and deal a new hand in the new game type.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="settings-menu"><title>Settings Menu</title> 
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Card Backside</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Lets you choose a new pattern for the backs of the cards.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Animation on Startup.</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>If there is a checkmark in front of this option, when you first start
&kapp;, there is a short animation and title page which appears.  To disable
this, simply remove the check from in front of this option.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="help">
<title>The <guimenuitem>Help</guimenuitem> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="contents"><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>Contents</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This invokes the KDE help system starting at the the top of this
help file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="whats-this"><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>What's This?</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This changes the mouse cursor to a combination arrow and
question mark.  Clicking on items within &kapp; with this arrow will open a help
window (if one exists for the particular item) explaining the item's
function.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="bug-report"><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>Report Bug.</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If you find an error in the program, or you have an idea on how
to improve the game, clicking this option will let you send an official bug
report to the KDE team.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="about-kpat"><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>About KPatience</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This will display version and author
information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="about-kde"><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>About KDE</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This displays the KDE version and other basic
information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="Credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kapp; Copyright 1995-2000  Paul Olav Tvete 
</para>
<para>
Documentation Copyright 2000 Paul Olav Tvete 
</para>
<para>
Documentation updated for KDE 2.0 by Michael McBride
<email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

&x11license-links;

</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->
